
20100709: 0.2.3 alpha with internal closure miner and XML 
import/export facilities

1/ Added functionality in representative rules by implementing
the heuristic of Kryszkiewicz 2001 - part of a plan to implement
other heuristics and compare.

2/ Added a closure miner and options to write and read the
output in XML files. Current default behavior is to try to 
find the closed sets in an XML file; if not found, try to
find them in an output file of the Borgelt apriori binary;
if not found, try to run the Borgelt apriori binary; if not
found, run the internal miner. In all cases, write off the
result as an XML file. This behavior can be controlled by
tuning the internal parameters xmlinput and use_external_miner.

3/ Of course that part meant quite some refactoring of the
base clattice class (but still not efficiently used in the 
job class).

4/ Revised docstrings.

5/ Branched some code into a somewhat different brother project
(ask JLB for more info if interested).



20100502: 0.2.2 alpha with confidence boost support for B* rules

1/ Bug: in 0.2.1, if RR requested with confidence 100% 
(that is, the iteration-free basis) a call to "mingens" 
instead of "findmingens" led to runtime error. Fixable 
on 0.2.1 using revision 28 or later of rerulattice.py, 
fixed in 0.2.2.

2/ Confidence boost could be employed on B* rules although 
it was programmed thinking of RR; the results were sometimes 
slightly incorrect if used for B*. Reprogrammed for 0.2.2.

3/ 0.2.1 contained quite an amount of dead code and several
header doc strings were not up to date; also some of the 
progress messages allowed some improvement. Revised for 
0.2.2, including an incomplete heuristic for accelerating RR.

4/ The other caveats still apply: dataset must not contain
character "/", and getting the apriori call to the program
of Christian Borgelt run on non-XP machines might be tricky.

5/ Other todos: refactor cboost.py into rerulattice.py in a
way similar to how it is handled in brulattice.py; refactor
to avoid the duplicate lattice within job; reprogram all unit 
testing in the appropriate way; add unit testing to slanode 
and verbosity.



20091201: Bugfix release 0.2.1 alpha: fix a couple of minor issues.

1/ a technical question in the confidence boost filter

2/ output of rules no longer outputs the puzzling confidence width

3/ attempted to add support for Darwin on MAC (thanks Marta)

Caveats: 

a/ dataset is assumed not to contain the character '/';

b/ header information in the source files is likely to be obsolete;

c/ the external apriori call is to a Win32 binary -- works on XP and 
cygwin, for Linux it may suffice to uncomment a couple of lines
of code in clattice.py, and for Darwin it may suffice to copy
the same two lines and adjusting them a bit (might not work though).

Please read on.



20091121: First ever public download (0.2.0 alpha) of Slatt!

Caveat: dataset is assumed not to contain the character '/'.

Caveat: the external apriori call is to a Win32 binary; works
on XP and cygwin, should be easy to port to Linux but not yet done.

What: API to play with closure lattices and their generators; 
main application is the computation of bases of association rules: 
GD basis of implications, Representative Rules basis for rules, 
B* basis for partial rules. It implements an additional recently
developed threshold: confidence boost.

HowTo: ToDo; but in the meantime look at main.py and how it uses 
job.py; then do similar tasks, then look into job.py to see how 
it uses the API.

Dataset: items are strings not containing the blank character, 
the '/' character, nor whatever control characters your system 
can get fooled with (bogus end of file, for instance). 
Transactions are sets of items, separated by a blank character, 
each transaction in a separate line.

Dataset filename: extension ".txt" is assumed throughout (see
main.py for examples). The system will store in files starting
with the same name various closure lattices and, if requested,
resulting rule sets.

Parameters: program hints.py will compute some values and suggest
bold guesses for support bounds supposedly appropriate for various
confidence levels; but these support thresholds might end up in 
long times to mine all the closures. As of confidence boost, the
suggested values are 1.05, 1.1, 1.15, and 1.20, for the time being.

Rules: antecedent and consequent will be pretty obvious; they
are written together with their width, confidence, and support.

ToDo: infinitely many things. First few of these: review cboost
for B*; manage to sort the output according to the confidence
boost; review and hopefully remove all commented-out code;
allow for the use of '/' in the data, at least by offering
a choice of the separating character at lattice reading time;
redesign the "verbosity" issue because it does not really 
work well; reorganize the lattice classes so as to avoid the 
second disk reading when the minimal generators are requested
(clattice, slattice, brulattice, rerulattice, probably more); 
take allsubsets out of cboost and find a good place for it; 
recover the AFP interactive learner; replace the call to 
the external apriori algorithm of Borgelt by our own closure 
lattice miner; find out how to detect whether the supports 
reached on the closure file are valid for more generous support 
bounds; support integer coding to interface with programs that 
require it; be faster at the correspondence tightening; be 
faster at the hypergraph transversal computation (for instance 
via Fredman-Khachiyan); manage to avoid the workarounds 
circumventing the problem of initializing slanodes as 
inheriting from frozenset; clarify who knows and who needs
to know the number of transactions nrtr, and think carefully
how to ensure it; several open questions in the clattice.py 
file; consider removing all the computations of the width; 
add alternative methods to compute and/or approximate the
Representative Rules according to the incomplete heuristic 
of Kryszkiewicz 2001 and according to the Balcazar-Casas
complete but slower alternative; try to simplify printrules 
and think about where it should live; add drawing capabilities
of the Hasse diagrams of the lattices; invent how to visualize
association rules; do I really want corrs for the rule sets?
AND WRITE A USER MANUAL.
